and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show i'm your host
sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and if you haven't done
so yet check out my weekly email where
i'm sharing actionable website and
marketing tips useful guides podcasts
goodies and much much more every monday
so you can start your week off with a
bang give it a try over at
businessgrowth.email
[Music]
so joining me today i've got ben
goldstein ben's the vp of marketing over
at nutshell
welcome to the show sir how are you
doing i'm great thanks for inviting me
on sam
no worries dude i'm looking forward to
this this is a topic i'm fairly
passionate about as i know you are too
oh yeah and
something i feel not enough is spoken
about in the seo world in the b2b
marketing space so let me change all
things how b2b companies my business in
general can set up a blog from scratch
and start generating
revenue hard-earned cash from that copy
making content work hard for their
business but
first and foremost ben
i thought blogs were dead i thought they
died a few years ago and i thought
demand gen was the new big thing to be
doing to drive revenue for b2b how dare
you sam who is putting these ideas in
your head uh no i mean i hear this stuff
all the time are blogs dead is ppc dead
or virtual events dead no they're just
it's all getting more competitive and
that's the problem and and i think folks
you know maybe they're getting less
results than they were a year or two ago
but
the goal is the same you have to do
these things really well you have to do
all these things better than your
competition if you're going to run a
blog it has to be better than your
competitors and and if you can do that
believe me the bdb blog as a concept as
a format is still very much alive
yeah yeah yeah and with that said is it
is it it's content it's article writing
is blog creation still something that
can really drive serious revenue in 2022
and beyond
absolutely and and i think you know
maybe the caveat is you have to do it
right and what you have to do is is
focus these blog articles these content
on on folks who are in the consideration
stage so you actually turn them in to
leads that you can measure and you know
i think a lot of content marketers get
discouraged when they kind of have a
spray and pray approach to publishing
and they're like do we go for top funnel
is it mid funnel are we doing things to
acquire email addresses and it's it's
hard to measure when you're throwing it
all into the wind
but
you know if you can create articles and
content that put a visitor on a path to
a sql and a version a conversion not not
an mql but right to to actually direct a
reader into a sales conversation
starting a trial your software
contacting sales signing up for that
intro demo you can measure that pretty
directly and that could be very very
profitable
got it
so
i think when we're going to get into the
actionables we're going to lay out a
step by step shortly
but quite often and i'm sure it's not
just me but i'm sure there's some
visitors that are tuning in as well some
of our audience are thinking well quite
often when i see a blog i'm thinking of
maybe a how-to or perhaps it's answering
my question or perhaps it's comparing
vendors or
like you say quite heavy towards the top
of the sales funnel or the consideration
maybe middle middle of the funnel stages
where people are really early doors
perhaps not even sure if they need your
solution perhaps they're just thinking
oh i might need help with this problem
or i need to understand this it's faster
or quicker um
can those kind of things been where
people do
presumably search on google they find
your article they land on your site
are those visitors going to convert into
sales qualified leads or is there a
process that has to take place to then
get them on that journey
well i think if if you're offering a
product or solution that is easy to
trial easy to get into then yes
absolutely we sell a
small business crm and an email
marketing solution that uh it's quite
easy to say oh let me test out the
software i'll hit that orange button at
the top of the the blog article and
fill my information and get into a trial
pretty quickly
if it's something more enterprise where
there's a long a longer kind of
a longer sales cycle in general a longer
process to you know i'm thinking of of
brands that like make you contact them
just to get pricing
it's a different it's a different kind
of scenario but for us when we're when
we're pitching at uh small businesses
small business sales teams that want to
get into something simple yeah it's a
pretty direct pathway and and you know
that that's the sort of side note here
is that you want to make sure that
you're offering those sign up forms and
every blog page you're offering those
inline cta's that that get you to that
sign up page um if you are you know if
you have
the the uh the foundation the groundwork
said correctly yeah it's a pretty direct
path from a visit to to an sql
yeah so for
perhaps companies that don't have a
free
version or free trial
or i guess a low friction ask for the
visitor that's landing on your article
and let you say perhaps their
product is several hundred dollars a
month maybe a several thousand a month
maybe it's more um
can this strategy still work for them
because like you say it's unlikely that
someone's gonna
necessarily request a demo on the first
touch
i think it might just work at a smaller
scale in a small volume you might have a
a slightly lower success rate doing this
sort of thing but it has to be part of
the mix
i mean
every
you know
enterprise software companies big
businesses they still use this
on a pretty regular basis to attract
those kind of visitors that are looking
to like just swipe their credit card
right now i'm in the consideration stage
i'm considering you against x y and z um
you want to get in front of that traffic
really badly so i think it still works
even for those even if there's a few
steps uh in between from you know
becoming a legitimate sales lead from
just like walking in the door but you
got to do it
all right so let's jump into it let's
talk about how we can actually how a
business can set this up from
scratch
what are the the very first
considerations
for
a site perhaps they've already got a
measly blog that they've neglected for
the last five years or perhaps they've
got nothing at all perhaps as a startup
and it's a fresh site what are the first
pieces of the puzzle that needs to be in
play before we kind of get get cracking
and start
sure i need to get a copy well you know
there are a couple of blog article
formats that i recommend
you know right away to pretty much
anyone if you're a startup if they're at
a small company and you know we
mentioned it before the sort of
mid-funnel consideration stage
i guess we might call it sort of low
middle funnel these folks are actively
looking for a solution to purchase and
and
there's a couple ways that we've done
this consistently at nutshell and i'll
just run through these real quick the
first um
you know you i think you mentioned it
before alternatives vendor alternatives
articles so for us it's stuff like you
know best hubspot alternatives best pipe
drive alternatives best monday crm
alternatives things like that so you
know
these sort of vendor rankings where you
sort of place yourself at at the top
most prominently but in a sort of honest
way
they're really good at collecting and
attracting visitors with with high
purchase intent so
these folks are in the process of
evaluating some piece of software one of
your competitors one of your competitor
solutions for example but there's
something stopping them from the trigger
that could be the cost it could be
missing features
and they're kind of looking for a reason
to buy elsewhere so again you want to
get in front of these visitors more than
anything else and and position your
solution as being strong where
competitors x is weak um and and you can
get those folks into signing up for a
trial contacting your sales team pretty
pretty regularly we've done it i know it
works and um i think the only trick with
stuff like this is again to be honest as
possible avoid going negative you mean
you want an article like this to be a
genuinely useful tool for someone who's
looking for an alternative to this
competitor so you have to honestly
present yourself honestly the pros and
cons of everybody you're including on
that list otherwise it just looks like a
hit piece and you'll lose credibility
which is not good if it's you know the
first time a visitor is encountering
your brand
gotcha yeah and i'll just say real
briefly that the second one um is the
sort of best x for y articles which you
know and we we do like best crms for
nonprofits best crms for that integrate
with quickbooks or something and it's
just a classic long tail strategy it's
really really good for drawing in
visitors with a specific requirements if
they don't you know if your product
doesn't do x it's a deal breaker for
them so you have to create content for
this specific personas trying to solve
this specific uh problem uh best x for y
that'll that's like it's such a go-to
for us but it works
i would say between those two content
types it brings in like 80 of our our
blog generated leads
got it okay
let's drill down on those a bit more
yeah um so
vendor alternatives yeah so in your case
i'm guessing it's people that are
comparing two crm options
um
what are the starting points before you
start putting together these articles
what i mean by that is should we be
doing things like keyword research
should we be how are we going to know
which is our
juiciest competitor that we need to get
ahead of yeah if we don't um
and any other considerations
yeah that's that's
that's a great question i kind of think
keyword research is often like the last
resort it might be a weird thing for
someone who specializes in an seo
concept for a long time to say
but
we we take these topics honestly from
from our own sales calls
and uh you know if one of our sales team
is in uh doing a discovery call with
someone okay what else are you looking
at right now and we try to gather um
that information just from conversations
what's coming up more than anything else
and also on the other side like
if if folks are turning out and they're
leaving us for a certain tool what is
that tool let's make some content around
them
around that competitor they could
hopefully head off some of these
questions some of these objections so so
you know talking to people is always the
best policy number one
and then also like there's you know i
hate to get into like the sort of vibes
over data uh kind of thing but like
i'm sure every person listening this
who's a marketer who works at b
excuse me b to b company probably has a
handful of folks that you would really
just like to eat their lunch these
competitors that you're like i want to
take their at least part or some segment
of their customer base because we think
we can serve them better or they're
beating us head to head and
those things always go up in the list
and then finally you get some keyword
research all right what else is out
there but but usually you can especially
if you're a small team with you know
small amount of resources
you can figure out quickly just just by
noticing and researching your place in
the market with the uh the certain
topics you have to start with
yeah i'm guessing it will probably only
take a one minute conversation with your
sales team to know what the main
competitor is look what we're losing
deals to guys yeah and and again like
you know i'm coming this
from a place of you know we're a crm
company with hundreds of competitors so
sometimes it does take a little extra
thought thinking okay what do we do next
but uh you know a lot of folks are not
in as competitive markets or they sell a
newer kind of
uh technology solution and there just
aren't as many and you just check these
off the list just just knock out every
single one of them
yeah okay
and
in terms of actually
putting together let's say we've spoken
to our team we've listened to some calls
we know who our main competitors are we
perhaps know a bit about why we're
losing deals
maybe it's to do with pricing maybe it's
to do with spec
maybe it's to do with
something else um
what are some ideas around leveraging
these points and like you say
being honest but i guess at the same
time you still want to make your
solution sound like the go-to option as
they're on your site yeah what are some
some kind of best practices on actually
doing these comparison pages and
articles yeah i mean i think
the thing that punches up these pages
are customer quotes
and
you know they don't even have to be
original customer quotes we you know we
troll g2 and capterra
and other software review sites like
that to find out what other people are
saying about our competitors and again
like you don't want to sort this thing
by lowest rate and then just put all the
hate
but you should be able to identify
okay
this competitor does this very well we
do this all right or this competitor
does not do this very well and here's
here's where we can win and you put that
in the words of actual people who are
using these products through quotes
you're collecting by yourself uh through
your sales team and your your customer
success team and as well just you know
like i said review sites on the on the
internet are such a great well to draw
from if you're if you want to you know
add some social proof uh what people are
actually saying about every single tool
that you're gonna include in an article
like this
gotcha and
is there a limit on how many of these
articles you should do
i don't think so i i mean i think that
the limitations only exist when you're
con you're sort of resource constrained
you know you don't want to spend your
entire year doing just one kind of
content
but i mean i think we could
you know my company could spend months
just doing this
i i don't think there's any sort of
limit you want to be as discoverable as
possible for as many searches from folks
who are looking to buy software so um i
think you know
you know
scratch that vein until it sort of goes
dry
[Music]
that's fair
and is this the main content type that
our resources should be
spending time creating or are there i
know there's a couple others you want to
talk about yeah well yeah i mean outside
of the consideration stage mid funnel
stuff that's like number one you have to
get that in place first
but i'd say once that's set up and you
feel comfortable and you're generating
leading that kind of content
um you know you want to shift your focus
to stuff that draws in a lot of top
funnel traffic from your ideal buyers
just they're exposed to you and also
offers them something of real value and
i think one content type that checks
both of those boxes is templates and
again this is sort of a it's a classic
strategy b2b companies have been doing
this for a long time
but people
you know they go on google because
they're looking for quick help and we
all want to take work out of our day and
find shortcuts to efficiency um
templates help your your buyers do that
which is why they're still popular um
you know we've had a ton of
success doing like
email marketing templates sales email
templates because our buyers are sales
sellers and marketers they they sell
with email so how can we make their
lives easier
is it easier for them to copy and paste
something that an expert put put
together rather than them having to
write something from scratch probably
will be more successful using a temple
unless unless you're like a really
really talented writer so you know i
would just suggest
you know what what are your buyers
trying to do quickly you know what can
you help them accomplish
that sort of gets them almost all the
way there and if you can figure out how
to do that and package up some templates
that save your buyers some time
i i think the resulting content could
drive a lot of traffic to your site and
it could help you collect a lot of email
addresses if you decide to gate it i
know that's kind of a controversial
thing these days
and it'll give your buyers a quick win
and maybe they'll remember you when it's
time finally for them to uh to actually
start looking for a solution to buy
is that the goal really of top of funnel
content ben um
because like you say depending on what
you do
when someone's searching for an answer
to their question whether it's how to do
x or the best way to do y or fastest way
to achieve zed and like you say perhaps
gearing templates to help you get that
done nice and fast yeah um
chances are they're probably just going
to go on the site grab the info and then
hop off
not always yeah and and you know this is
the whole uh argument right now about
gating content because if you get it you
can at least collect an email address
and as marketers we love to measure our
success so we can measure how many email
addresses we collected but that's really
the only reason that you would actually
do that
unless you have a really you know
stellar email marketing nurturing
program honestly you want to give them
what they need and give them the help
they were looking for as quickly as
possible and just use that as a way to
expose your brand to these visitors
these visitors who are in your ideal
target market and that could be harder
to measure the impact of that you can
certainly measure traffic to pages
but it's harder to measure unless you
have some you know
really uh precise tooling that that you
can see if a lead comes in and you can
see what what pages they've they've
landed on what was their path uh yeah
and we do because we have some really
smart engineers on our team uh but i
know that's not really an option for
everybody um
but ultimately you just want you want to
give people a great experience when they
come to your site for the first time and
i think templates are a good way to do
that
do you think it's more of a long term
brand play than anything else top of
final content um yeah yeah because
you do that to associate your brand with
a point of view and expertise and
helpfulness so if if you can give uh you
know a buyer of your solution enough
exposures to that kind of feeling
we hope and hopefully we can measure at
some point uh that they're going to turn
into a lead and turn into a customer but
but yeah we're trying to change the the
we're trying to win hearts and minds out
there and and you know that that's why
we do it and it and you know i think you
still have to focus on some of your
effort on top of the funnel because you
need to differentiate your brand from
everybody else is doing the same thing
you are and offering the same product so
that sort of helpful content is a really
good way of doing that i think
that's fair um
do you think that companies should look
to retarget this top of the funnel
traffic
so if they aren't converting then
following them around whether that's
facebook linkedin ads display ads and so
on to try and get them back onto the
site
yeah i do actually but i i think the
right way to do it is not to retarget
them into a sales conversation or
retarget them onto a sales landing page
they they uh you know consumed your
content they liked it you should keep
showing them more content promote
content in this way so retargeting is
great for showing this visitor more
content but yeah i think the common
mistake people make is saying okay you
downloaded our our sales pipeline
templates let's see if you can you know
maybe you want to buy our subscription
to our software and it's like they're
not yeah they don't want that you know
just so much money is burned doing that
and you know we look we've tried
everything at nutshell and that's
one of the lessons we learned like you
know
it just you're setting piles of cash on
fire if you're trying to get them into a
sales relationship before they're ready
nobody likes that
sure sure and i don't want to get down
there getting a non-getting rabbit hole
because we've talked about that on many
many episodes in the show but i think
that's a
a fair take really if someone's top of
the phone if they're not ready to speak
to sales show them more interesting
content that they might find useful
yeah and hopefully they you know they
take the initiative to sign up for your
newsletter or sign up for a webinar or
virtual conference on their own after
seeing some of your content because now
they like your brand and that's how you
get them onto your marketing audience
list then you can sort of nurture them
through that way or get them to
subscribe to your youtube channel
they're seeing all the videos you come
out uh come out with every time you
publish something it's it's i think
that's the smarter way to do that than
just you know trying to um i don't know
treat everybody as a lead in some way
because they're not
what should be the focus split then what
should be what should take up most of
your attention
against
kind of top of the funnel someone
searching how to do something learning
more wants a template or some tips yeah
middle of the funnel where perhaps
they're comparing alternatives different
vendors or perhaps bottom of the funnel
where someone's literally typing in best
crm for small business or best web
agency for sas or whatever that might be
yeah
it's hard to put a number on it i think
that thing i think the the breakdown
shifts over time
where in the in the beginning if you
don't have a mature content program you
have to be spending a majority of your
time you know 60 70
at least
on this sort of consideration stage
content or lower okay um
once you're a little well established
that maybe you drop that to 50 and the
sort of top of the funnel and uh helpful
tips and and just
how can we answer our visitors questions
quickly and get them back to work that
stuff you know
maybe another 30 or 40 percent but then
there's always this sort of last bit
that i think should be spent like you
should always be spending a lot not a
lot but like at least a piece of your
time on thought leadership and
not just the sort of you know a lot of
thought leadership sort of fails because
it's not like controversial enough or it
doesn't take a
a hard enough stance um but but if you
can have something to say that actually
challenges the way that your market is
thinking
if you have something to say say it
and and and so i i think thought
leadership content is always sort of
going to be should be in the background
of your content mix
in a way to differentiate yourself not
just not the product but what your
company believes what it stands for so
you know that's another way to just
in a crowded market crowded market just
stand out you're the company that
believes for x or is challenging
existing orthodoxy around you know
something that we all sort of deal with
interesting so thought leadership
content small percentage of focus on
that yeah is this kind of stuff going to
rank on google is it going to be
searchable or is it more things that we
hope that when people land on our site
they might go to i don't know this
particular page or maybe we'll direct
people from social or right
yeah it's it's not usually searchable
it's not usually discoverable on social
because it just doesn't align with any
keywords people are going to be
searching for but so yeah you have to
get a little creative it's it's your ceo
or one of your leadership team members
posting it on linkedin it's you finding
a industry newsletter to get inside paid
or non-paid uh it's you using your
social channels
not just your your brand channels but
individual employees and and the people
who work there to share this sort of
things to their own networks
um you just have to find those more
organic
dark social channels uh because uh you
know complete strangers not going to be
finding it by uh by searching through
google but if they you know who knows
if someone is digging into you uh they
want to uh you know consider your
product or solution they might be doing
some research and google and they might
be looking up your ceo and and sometimes
you find this stuff organically if
you're in that consideration stage and
then it becomes really helpful
got it
so we've laid out some content types
that you can utilize for your blog
articles
but you know as well as i do ben ranking
page on google ain't that easy uh it's
not no especially when you've got heavy
competition which you do in the crm
world and we do a website in seo world
too
um and so do many of our audiences sas
tech any other space they might be in
now
how can we
beat the giants in the market which
might be easier i mean you'll know this
better than i will perhaps in terms of
kind of top of funnel stuff there might
be gaps
and feel free to give us some ideas
there but when it comes to bottom of the
funnel when people are literally
searching like
best provider for x type of demographic
or
i don't know best agency for why or best
company for zed those can be super
competitive right
they can be super competitive and you
know i always warn folks away from doing
this if they're a startup because
look if you're starting a crm brand from
scratch today
don't try to rank for best crm or cr you
know you will waste a lot of your time
like that that real estate's already
gobbled up by salesforce and and all the
other leaders in the industry but you
can always win on long tail
and and not just long tail for
you know
best crm with reporting features i mean
like targeting the the audience or or
the the customer type that you want to
pursue
where you think you can win essentially
um so
it's hard to win the game of google when
you're playing an unwinnable game
but
you have to do some some thoughts if
you're not if you're not the leader in
your market if you're one of the smaller
players just trying to get a piece of
market share who are you best for
think about who has the most success
with your product and and then
your seo content should be pitched at
them very specifically and the the more
general you go the more chances you have
to lose in that game
any this is a bit more tactical ben
any advice for checking if a topic or
search term that you actually want this
keyword
to rank for for your articles you're
creating is going to be realistic
uh yeah i mean like we use semrush just
like anybody to see sort of like keyword
difficulty and things like that um
but i think i've been doing this long
enough where i have an i as a writer as
an editor as a content producer to think
okay i have this topic in mind
i'm going to have to beat hubspot and
salesforce in order to rank you know
sort of visibly just small fish then
just the small fish well i mean i mean
these are the ones i always think about
i mean there's there's a ton now though
but sure you know you know
let me let me engage critically with the
content that is already out in the you
know top five spots of google
let me out like have a real like
heart-to-heart moment with myself can me
and my team produce something that's
better than this and are we far enough
are we too far in terms of like domain
authority um to even be able to compete
i mean this is thankfully it's not a
concern for us anymore but i know it's a
concern for newer companies where
they're not just not as well established
they don't have a lot of backlinks
pointing to their their websites and
like sometimes it literally is
impossible if you have a huge you know
market leader in your space and you're
just starting out you're not going to
win uh for these you know unless you go
really long tail so
you know have the uh the content
maturity to uh look at what's already
ranking and saying can i do better than
this and is it possible you know because
of you know based on the life cycle of
my brand and my domain compared to what
else is already out there
yeah
got it that's that's for basically
assessing the competition
really kind of nailing down is is it
going to be realistic for us to rank for
these terms yeah and then if not perhaps
niche down a bit get a bit more specific
in that search query and what you
actually want the article to rank for
and go from there any recommendations on
what makes a solid article structure
um in terms of what should we actually
put in there should i just go for 5000
words ben should i maybe stick a picture
an infographic a video a podcast should
i do all the above
but don't do all the above unless it
really calls for that and and you know
gosh not
there are a few uh blog topics that call
for 5 000 words and i think
one thing a lot of content marketers get
wrong is thinking
well we can we could just
beat this topic in the submission
through we can win on sheer volume which
is rarely true i think you can win by
answering uh the visitors of the search
query
as as concisely and quickly as possible
what also helps is original research
original stats pulled from your own
customers
anytime you have original data you
increase you know
to an astounding degree uh the
likelihood that someone's going to link
to that article uh and which which of
course helps the placement of that
article so i i think you want to start
with how can i answer this question as
as as concisely as i can what else is
actually needed um in terms of
you know added value to this topic
make sure you have section headings that
kind of align with common stir queries
um don't spend a lot of time on the
intro because man people are scrolling
through this stuff on their phones and
they you know more than three scrolls
and they're out
um get to the point as quickly as you
can answer the questions as quickly as
you can and and bring in expert voices
so it's not just some anonymous blog
writer on your b2b site uh trying to uh
tell you as a professional how to do
your job
good stuff now you mentioned links
should
does an article need
backlinks to it i.e links from other
external sites going to your article to
rank well or can it purely rank for
content alone
it's really it's really hard to rank for
content alone unless you're really
established
as a brand as a domain and it gets
easier and easier you know as big as
your company gets
however
um
backlinks are generally the path to
success for this sort of thing to get
your your piece of content ranking high
on page one you need backlinks
and you know you know thankfully
we're at a place where we get requests a
lot from other b2b sites other brands
hey can we place a backlink here on this
page can we do a guest post swap and i
always respond to those requests with an
ask of my own saying sure we can do that
for you if you if you put our link here
on your site of course like i check
first to make sure it's a legit domain
they have a domain authority of like at
least 50. but there's generally at any
given time
me and my team have
at least a dozen
you know links to articles on our site
that we're trying to get higher ranked
they're really you know they're just off
the page one or google or they're low on
page one
and and those are the ones we focus on
in these sort of link exchanges if
you're asking you for something sure but
you have to link to this specific
article of ours and by the way i've
already done the research for you i
think it'll be a perfect fit on this
page of yours uh you know make it easy
for people to say yes but if someone you
know i i think
a lot of folks have gone through this
where you're sort of just being asked
constantly for guest post opportunities
and backlinks and you might just be
hitting the delete key on this but those
are all opportunities for you to get
something exchanged it should all be
reciprocal um use it as an opportunity
and that i think we use that method of
just asking the person who that who's
asking as a way of getting more
backlinks and pretty much anything else
we've done although we have done some
like you know had some formal processes
around that as well
sure yeah that's that's a good way of
looking at it it's um for a company
that's perhaps only just started out on
the article side of things for their
website
how should they go about acquiring links
for certain pages if they're perhaps not
getting inbound requests
yeah that's that's really hard because
again if you're asking someone who has
any sort of sophistication they will
look up your domain authority and say oh
gosh this is not looking good this this
might hurt me to you know to link to
this site
um
i i say that the two strategies are just
finding other small companies who are
going through the same thing that you
are
you know
other kind of smaller players in the
space who might be willing to make a
sort of trade or an arrangement
and then also again you know i mentioned
like original data before you have to be
a leader when it comes to you know i'm
gonna put out that annual state of b2b
sales report and it has all these
original uh stats called from surveys
and their own customer base and
you know you can put that in someone's
hands
and say hey we have these original stats
i see you're you're linking to an
outdated statistic from hubspot from
2017. uh yeah why don't you use this
instead and then i'll get you back you
know i could do a favor for you as well
down the road
um you know i think you just have to put
more leg work into it
yeah so doing a bit of outreach and
perhaps luring in companies that might
be interested in some
unique data or stats that you've got to
leverage
nice
although you know the other thing too is
just like
if it's a really really strong fantastic
piece of content and you're promoting it
in all the channels you can and getting
in the hands of i don't say taste makers
but other people in your industry who
might be interested you know
if it's good enough to uh to be linked
to it will be
yeah
cool do you think there should be one
final question on links do you think
there's a limit on how many you should
exchange off your own site so rather
than other sites linking to you
is there a limit of let's say we've got
an article we want to rank and perhaps
two or three other companies want us to
link from this article to theirs
should we be restricted i.e don't do
more than two or three on your own page
is there any best practices from your
opinion
i mean saying two or three on your own
page is as good as rule of thumb as any
like you you there is this sort of like
inflection point where you look at a
piece of content of yours and thinking
oh my goodness i've used this as the
carrot in too many exchanges there are
way too many third-party links
and it's and you know
at the beginning you want to make sure
anything you're linking to from from
your site is going to add extra value to
a person reading that article
um
but yes there's absolutely
a limit where it's like i think maybe
the reader can pick up on the fact that
this there's some sort of like seo
trickery going on here why why am i on
your i'm on nutshell's blog page why am
i being linked to this that and the
other
um you know some of these are might be
promotional pages like it looks strange
it looks spammy
and
you know you say two or three external
links
when you're publishing something
you should already have some external
links that you include just because you
think they'll be really helpful for the
reader like don't
you know you don't want to be miserly
when it comes to that sort of thing
but i i think you know two or three
links from from
through exchanges uh that sounds about
as good limit as anything i think that's
fine
gotcha okay um
and just to wrap things up ben
this is again gonna be very industry
specific and it's gonna depend on the
type of content that you're going for
whether you're going for this top of
final middle of final bottom of funnel
stuff but from your experience i mean
feel free to use nutshell as an example
how long did it take to go from
content to
demo requests to close business one
revenue
uh in in the sense of it becoming roi
positive where the the value of the
leads actually paying for the content
program
exactly
it probably took about two and a half
years
and
you know
you know nutshell was the second
marketing job i had
and you know i had my first job at a
company called credibly i was there
content marketing manager i was hired by
nutshell in 2016 to be their content
marketing manager eventually worked my
way up the ranks but
i i had to learn a lot of this stuff
through trial and error and and trial
and error is a perfectly valid strategy
for success by the way it just takes a
long time
and sometimes if you you know if you're
a startup you don't have you don't have
time for it you don't have the resources
for trial and error i feel like if i
could have gone back
with what i know now i would have gotten
to that sort of roi positive state a lot
faster
um but but it takes a while when you're
just you know using the shotgun approach
thinking oh this is going to be
you know discoverable insertion is going
to get a lot of traffic and this might
you know here's some product marketing
and gosh here's a video we're going to
make and all this stuff and and when
there's no
it's tough when you don't have that
existing data to pull from
telling you what's successful and what
isn't you have to you have to come up
with that on your own but again going
going back now it would be a lot more
mid-funnel stuff
a lot for a lot more content
specifically targeted at drawing in
sales leads
nice one and do you think there's any
companies that should steer clear
of a blog strategy
is there any stages in the business's
life cycle where it should be like let's
not do it it's probably not right to do
it now
i i can't think of any i mean like you
know like i'm i'm specialized in in b2b
and that's my world and that's really
all i know i'm not an e-commerce guy
you know i think i think the rules for
successor can be a bit different when
you're trying to sell shoes or vitamins
or luggage or something like that but
for a b2b product or solution
it works
it works because you're still talking to
human beings you're still trying to
reach folks who have a problem that your
product or solution is trying to solve
and they're looking online for ways to
ease that pain in their lives so i don't
i can't think of a single industry or
segment of b2b
that that wouldn't benefit from a b2b
blog strategy
yeah yeah i think
if you've got that long-term mindset and
you understand this not necessarily
going to be
a quick fix a few weeks later the leads
are going to come flooding in well yeah
i mean and look and listen to folks like
me who have been doing this the hard way
for you know many years now it doesn't
have to be as as long tail as you think
it might be
seo takes years to catch on content
takes years to catch and look if you're
doing the right things if you're
spending your your focus and your time
and resources the right way
you should be able to get to roi
positivity in less than a year
um i don't care who you are i think
that's that's that's the truth um
in any market if you're spending your
time the right way
yeah i love the points earlier about
actually leveraging the
sales calls with your with the actual
listening to sales schools rather from
your reps from your team that's
something i harp on about quite a lot
and that that can inform not just seo
content right because you can understand
kind of what are the common objections
that come up what are common
frustrations what are the common queries
what's the stumble blocks for deals
going over the line okay let's address
it with content let's put together video
content blog articles podcast let's hit
this nail on the head
so we're actually addressing the the
demand the market has and also you know
the thing that came to mind when you're
listing all those things out is like
customer story content so anything
that's sales enablement related and and
you know you you turn a a few
conversations with some of your
customers into reported features now you
have something
oh you run a music school like there's a
customer of ours who's had a lot of
success running their music school with
nutshell why don't you give this a read
and let me know if you have any
questions um
and and you know you learn this thing
these these sorts of insights just from
talking to folks and and just kind of
picking up on trends who's coming in the
door what are they looking for what are
the pains they're trying to solve what
does success look like for them and and
then now you have a deep well of of of
sales enablement content that you can
provide to them in the sales process
yeah yeah and ultimately this like you
said it's not only gonna
be searchable it's also gonna save your
sales team time maybe save your customer
service team time because you've got the
content you can actually direct these
prospects or these customers to rather
than having to repeat yourself over and
over again you say look at this article
look at this video look at this resource
on our website
and um
yeah i mean it's it's supposed to be
like
you know the grease and the wheel at
every point in the sales process when
done correctly you know content helps
get folks in into a sales conversation
helps them get through that sales
conversation faster helps answer their
questions when they're first starting
out with your product and and when
they're struggling as as folks sometimes
do you know a year or two down the road
content can help then too you know so
as content markers
there's a lot that's sometimes hard to
measure in terms of the impact what we
do but we are impacting that entire
funnel and uh and the work we do matters
yeah and we just need the sales reps to
close those deals right
they're doing their best as we all are
sam
we'll leave that a lot ben with that
said thanks very much coming on sir i
really enjoyed the chat it's been been
great to talk all things blog content
and seo and so with that said please do
tell us more about how everyone tuning
in can learn more about yourself your
company and connect with you
yeah if you want to learn more about
nutshell just visit
www.nutshell.com again we're an
all-in-one crm and email marketing
solution for b2b organizations
um you want to learn more about me
for some reason yeah just go to linkedin
search my name ben goldstein uh i have
the avatar of me holding my yorkie
doddley it's it's hard to miss um but
i'd love to connect with anybody
listening to this always love to talk
shop about content marketing uh
yeah
happy to hear from you
nice one sir and we shall put all of
those links over in the episode show
notes which will be on
businessgrowth.marketing over that
thanks once again ben for coming on
thank you sam
no worries and as always if you enjoyed
today's episode why not hit subscribe or
leave us a quick rating on your podcast
channel of choice and with that said
we'll catch you on the next episode for
more actionable low bs web and marketing
tips catch you on the next one